---
layout: post
title: "Kimai 0.7.12"
date: "2009-02-08 19:30:00 +0200"
author: beny
---

Download: Kimai v0.7.121

UPDATES (February 10, 2009):
Minor update to fix a bug in safari/chrome browser and updated updater.php (for 0.7.11 users to upgrade to 0.7.121)

If you decide to **update**, please **back up** your DB and current installation of 0.7.11.

* * *

What version is this? This version is my modification of version 0.7.11, I called it version 0.7.12 because this version doesn't use kga array like in v0.7.13r44.
I stripped down some modifications and left the ones that can apply to everyone.
I hope you like them. what's new in this version?

The modifications in this version are the following:

- US date format
- Regular user cannot add customers/projects/tasks
- Regular user cannot add comments to projects/tasks
- Ability to show/hide for customers/projects/tasks
- Ability to add comments/descriptions for projects/tasks (only Admin or group leader)
- Streamline the entry form to use just 1 date field for date in and date out
- More compatibility with Internet Explorer 7 (known bug in IE 7: admin layout is messy)
- Error message (using overlay) when failing to add your data to the database (normally because of date/time invalid format)
- Overlays are draggable
- Minor adjustments of user interface

Database modifications:
In kimai\_conf table, I replaced data type for filter\_knd, filter\_pct, and filter\_evt to varchar(300).

This change is included in install.php. but not in updater.php so **DO NOT UPGRADE**, NEW INSTALL ONLY PLEASE. 
